 , the role , , played by Kim Cattrall of Celimene . In an Oct. 19 ( Take `` Leisure & Arts Revitalized Classics ) , '' in Windy City the Stage review of `` The '' Misanthrope at Chicago 's Theatre Goodman was mistakenly attributed to Christina Haag
 Ms. Haag plays Elianti .
 Rolls Royce - Motor Inc. Cars said it expects its U.S. sales to remain in 1990 steady at about 1,200 cars .
 The luxury auto maker in the U.S. sold 1,214 cars last year
 Howard , Mosher president and chief executive officer , said he anticipates growth for the luxury auto maker in Britain and Europe , and in Far Eastern markets .
 BELL Inc. INDUSTRIES increased from seven cents a share its quarterly to 10 cents .
 The rate new will be payable Feb. 15 .
 A date record has been set n't .
 Bell based in Los Angeles , , makes . and distributes electronic , computer and building products
 Investors appealing to the and Securities Exchange Commission not to limit their access to information about stock and sales purchases by corporate insiders are .
 A proposal SEC to ease reporting requirements for some company executives would undermine the as a stock - picking tool usefulness of information on insider trades . , individual investors and professional money managers contend
 They make the argument in letters about rule changes that , among other things , would exempt many middle - management executives from reporting trades in their own companies ' shares proposed this past summer to the agency .
 The changes proposed also allow executives to report exercises of options later and less often would .
 Many of the letters maintain that investor confidence and the markets already so stacked against the little guy has been so shaken that any decrease in information on insider - trading patterns prompt individuals to get out of stocks altogether might by the stock market 1987 crash -- -- .
 `` The SEC has paid obeisance to the ideal of a field level playing historically , Clyde McGregor S. of Winnetka , , Ill. '' wrote in one of the 92 letters the agency has received since the changes proposed Aug. 17 were .
 `` Apparently the commission really did not believe in this ideal . ''
 Currently , the rules . force to report within about a month after the transaction purchases and sales of their ' companies shares executives , directors and other corporate insiders
 But about 25 % of the insiders , late , file according to SEC figures . their reports
 The changes were proposed in an effort to streamline federal bureaucracy and boost compliance by the who really are calling the shots executives `` , '' said Brian Lane , special counsel at the SEC 's office of disclosure policy which the changes proposed , .
 , Mr. Lane said . Investors , money managers and corporate officials until today , had to comment on the proposals and the issue produced more mail than almost any other issue in memory has
 , The SEC will probably vote on the proposal early next year he said .
 Not those all who wrote oppose the changes .
 The Committee on Federal Regulation Securities of for the American Bar Association argues , '' . , for example in its letter lengthy to the SEC , that the proposed changes `` would substantially improve the { law } by conforming to contemporary business realities it more closely
 the investors who oppose the proposed changes object What to most is the effect they say the proposal have on their ability to spot telltale `` clusters '' of trading activity within a short of time period -- buying or selling by more one than or director officer would .
 According to some estimates , the rule changes cut insider filings by more than a third would .
 The 's SEC Mr. Lane . vehemently those estimates disputed
 , . he said The rules proposed also be tougher on the insiders still required to file reports would
 Companies be compelled to publish in annual statements proxy the names of insiders who fail to file on time reports would .
 Considered as a whole , Mr. Lane , said the filings required under the proposed rules be at least as effective if , not more so , for investors following transactions '' `` will .
 Many investors wrote asking to require to report immediately , not a month later their purchases and sales insiders the SEC .
 But . said Mr. Lane that while the SEC regulates who files , to when so do the law tells them
 Investors who want to change the required timing should write their representatives in Congress added he , .
 , he said The SEC would likely be amenable to legislation that required insiders to file transactions on a basis more timely .
 The 's nation largest , pension fund which $ 80 billion oversees for college employees , plans to offer two new investment options to its 1.2 million participants .
 The Insurance and Annuity Teachers Association Retirement Equities College - Fund said . it will introduce a fund stock and bond , and a bond fund that will invest in `` socially responsible '' companies
 Both funds are expected to begin operation around March 1 , subject to Securities and Exchange Commission approval .
 For its employees to sign for the options up , a college . must approve the plan also
 Some 4,300 institutions are . part of the pension fund
 The options new carry part of an that the pension fund reached under pressure to relax its participation strict rules and to provide more investment options , , with the SEC in December agreement out .
 The new `` social '' choice fund will shun securities of companies linked to South Africa nuclear and in some cases , Northern Ireland power , .
 Also will excluded be investments in companies with `` significant '' business stemming from weapons manufacture alcoholic or tobacco beverages , .
 Sixty of the fund percent will be invested in stocks , with the rest going into bonds or short - term investments .
 The fund bond will . invest in high - grade or medium - grade bonds , mortgages or asset - backed securities , including as much as 15 % in foreign securities
 The fund might also buy and sell futures and options contracts , subject to approval by the Insurance New York State Department .
 Under two new features , will participants be able to transfer money or if , their jobs are terminated , receive cash from the funds to other funds investment from the new funds .
 The choices investment offered by the pension fund are currently limited to a stock an annuity and a money - market fund fund , .
 New Brunswick Scientific Co. a maker of biotechnology instrumentation and equipment , , said . it adopted an plan anti - takeover giving shareholders the right to purchase shares at half price under certain conditions
 The company . the plan under review for some time , , will protect shareholders against abusive tactics takeover `` said
 W. Tyler Ed , 37 years old , a senior vice president at this printing concern , was elected president of its technology group , a new position .
 Solo players woodwind if they want to work a lot to be creative , have . because their repertoire and audience appeal are limited
 The oboist Heinz Holliger has . : taken a hard line about the problem He fearsome scores contemporary commissions and splendidly interprets and does some conducting , so he does n't have to play the same Mozart and Strauss concertos again over and over
 Richard Stoltzman has taken a , more audience - friendly approach gentler .
 Years ago , he '' collaborated in the group very countercultural chamber Tashi , which won audiences over to dreaded contemporary like Messiaen 's `` Quartet for the of Time End scores . with the new gurus music Peter Serkin and Fred Sherry
 Today , the pixie - like clarinetist now dropped the missionary work ( a touch of the Tashi old still survives though ) has mostly and goes on the road with piano , bass , a slide show and a that ranges from light classical to light jazz to light pop , with a exceptions few notable repertoire , .
 Just thing the for the Vivaldi - at - brunch set , the yuppie that has embraced as its very own easy listening New Age audience .
 But ca you n't dismiss Mr. Stoltzman 's music or his motives as merely commercial and lightweight .
 He , in what plays he believes and he plays superbly .
 His appearance recent at the Museum Metropolitan , dubbed `` A Musical '' Odyssey , was . a case in point
 It felt more like a , party or a highly polished jam session with a few friends , than a classical concert .
 Clad in his trademark suit black velvet , the soft - spoken clarinetist announced that his , new album `` Inner Voices , '' had just been released , that his family was in the front row , and that it so he was going to play her from the record favorite tune , his mother 's birthday was .
 He into Saint 's - Saens `` Swan The '' from `` Carnival of the Animals '' a favorite encore piece for cellists , , launched with lovely glossy and no bite , tone .
 Then as if to show that he play fast as well could , , . he offered the second from Saint - Saens 's Sonata for Clarinet movement , a whimsical puckish , that reflected the flip side of the personality Stoltzman tidbit
 And it so went through the first half : an ingeniously chosen potpourri of pieces , none longer than five minutes , none that would disturb or challenge a listener .
 Mr. Stoltzman introduced his : colleagues Bill Douglas , , pianist / bassoonist / composer and an from Yale old buddy and jazz bassist Eddie Gomez .
 Bach 's `` Air '' . followed
 Mr. Stoltzman tied the composer . in , and then built on the image by joining with Mr. Douglas in some Bach cleverly by Mr. Douglas arranged for clarinet and bassoon inventions , two - part by proclaiming him `` the great improviser of the 18th century ''
 Keeping the mood light , and chortled and then , with soared and improvised on the 's composer tight `` Bebop Etudes Mr. Gomez , , then the two chanted their way through some murderous devised by Mr. Douglas as an alternative to Hindemith 's dry theory - teaching techniques polyrhythms , . ''
 The of the half first end , however brought , the crowd standing - only room - to be waiting what for seemed : the pop singer Judy Collins , who appears on `` Inner Voices . ''
 Glamorous and pure - voiced as ever , Ms. Collins sang Joni Mitchell 's '' `` For Free -- about an encounter with a street - corner clarinetist , to which Mr. Stoltzman contributed -- a clarinet obligatto and Mr. 's Douglas of a blessing Gaelic `` , Deep Peace lush setting . ''
 `` Deep Peace '' featured also a slide of lovely but predictable of clouds , , beaches deserts , sunsets , etc images show .
 It , was but they probably would have gotten away they had not felt compelled to add Ms. Collins 's signature tune `` Amazing , Grace , '' and ask for audience participation , with it all too to be believed mellow .
 That over the for warm and fuzzy feelings permissible line went .
 this Was why some of the audience departed before or during the second half ?
 Or it was because Ms. Collins had gone ?
 Either way it , was a pity because Mr. Stolzman offered just intermission after the Steve Reich 's `` New York Counterpoint , '' one of a series of Reich works that a performer live juxtapose with recorded tracks of his or her own playing most substantial music of the evening : .
 ( Mr. Reich 's new for string quartet `` Trains Different '' uses . ) the technique magisterially
 Mr. Stoltzman must have worried that his audience not might be able to take it : . He warned in advance us that `` New York Counterpoint '' lasts 11 1\/2 minutes
 He . also illustrated this , intricate jazzy tapestry unfortunately with Mr. Pearson 's this time of geometric or repeating objects images , , in a kitschy mirroring of the musical structure that was thoroughly distracting from Mr. Reich 's and piece Mr. Stoltzman 's elegant execution of it
 The of the concert rest was more straight and mellow sounds jazz written by Charlie Parker Ornette , Coleman Bill Douglas and Eddie Gomez , , with pictures for the Douglas pieces .
 It , enjoyable was but like the first half , much of it was easy to take and ultimately forgettable to hear accomplished jazz without having to sit in a club smoke - filled .
 this Is the future of chamber music ?
 Managers and presenters , that chamber music concerts are a hard sell insist but can audiences ? really enjoy only if the music is purged of threatening elements , served up in bite - sized morsels and accompanied by visuals them
 What next 's ?
 Slides to illustrate Shostakovich quartets ?
 It , , not was thanks to the the of Mr. Douglas compositional talents , and the obvious sincerity with which Mr. Stoltzman his selections chooses high , level of performance certainly an evening unpleasant .
 But was it neither nor lasting : light entertainment that was no substitute for an evening of Brahms deep .
 Ms. Waleson is a free - lance writer based in New York .
 One of Ronald Reagan 's as President attributes was that he rarely his blessing to the claptrap that for `` consensus '' passes in various international institutions gave .
 In fact , he the U.S. liberated from one of the world 's most corrupt organizations -- UNESCO .
 This . the U.N. that managed to traduce its own charter of promoting education , science and culture group is
 Ever since , the members remaining have been desperate for the United States to rejoin this dreadful group .
 Now UNESCO apologists are lobbying President Bush to renege on President Reagan 's to depart decision .
 But can we think of many reasons to stay out for the and well beyond foreseeable future .
 The antics personal of agency Director Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow such as several of his aides top were and a mysterious office fire was when set just Congress accountants to trace U.S. funds sent before when uncovered as KGB plants and ejected from France drew much attention , .
 Mr. M'Bow , was an case extreme but even , replacement , his the Federico Mayor more personally genial Spanish biochemist has had little success at achieving reforms .
 Several projects ridiculous including the `` International New Economic Order which means redistributionism from the West to pay for everyone else 's statism , '' , continue .
 The `` Orwellian New Order World Information '' would . give government officials rights against the press ; journalists be obliged to kowtow to their government , which would have licensing and censorship powers and , indeed , duties to block printing of `` wrong '' ideas would
 UNESCO converted somehow the ideals founding U.N. of individual rights and liberty into `` peoples ' rights '' .
 Million - dollar conferences to chew on subjects such as `` ethical '' and `` the impact of the activities of transnational corporations responsibilities of scientists in support of disarmament held were . ''
 The agency was so totally from the principles high of its founding subverted that even the Soviets now about an agency that seemed so congenial to them wonder .
 Glasnost , be partly responsible may but Soviet Minister Foreign Eduard Shevardnadze The approach exaggerated ideological undermined tolerance intrinsic to UNESCO last year `` , admitted . ''
 UNESCO now is holding its to devise its next projects biennial meetings in Paris .
 Mr. 's Mayor hope that references to `` press freedom '' would survive unamended seems doomed to failure ; the current phrasing `` is educating the public and media to avoid manipulation . ''
 He n't has been able to replace the cabal M'Bow .
 Soviets in charge of education programs remain , . a former head of an African for executions military tribunal in charge of culture , is and a hard - line Polish in exile communist the human - rights and peace division directs
 , are Of the agency 's 2,750 staff members 230 in the field . working on actual such literacy and oceanographic research as projects ,
 The of the which contributed once 25 % of the budget United , States , position is that nothing changed has .
 John , Bolton the of state assistant secretary for international organizations , told Congress '' that the `` restrictive statist , , nondemocratic '' continuing programs make rejoining any time soon `` extremely unlikely .
 This n't has much bothered the UNESCO delegates , who last week even could n't agree to raise by selling off a fancy 19th - century French chateau the agency somehow owns funds .
 Other , countries including West Germany , may have a hard time justifying continued membership .
 We see an even stronger against UNESCO argument than its unsurprising failure to reform .
 This that the spanning Eastern and Tiananmen Square Europe Reagan Revolution shows the power of ideas unencumbered by international civil servants or government functionaries is .
 Free , markets free and free elections minds have an appeal that seems to get muddled only when through U.N. organizations -- which of course are made up largely of governments that fear these principles at home delivered .
 The of the Nations United Babelists are experts at obfuscation .
 This , have its purposes at times can but there 's no reason to cloud the of Western concepts of freedom and justice importance and allure .
 We see plenty , of reasons to stay out and none to rejoin UNESCO can .
 Researchers at Plant Genetic in Belgium Systems N.V. said they have developed a for creating hybrid for a number of key crops plants genetic engineering technique .
 The researchers said they isolated a plant gene that prevents the production of pollen have .
 The gene thus can prevent a plant from fertilizing itself .
 Such so - called male - sterile plants then can be fertilized , by pollen from another strain of the plant thereby producing hybrid seed .
 The generation new of plants will . possess the '' high - production trait flourishing , , similar to that now seen in hybrid corn known as hybrid vigor ``
 `` , '' . Murray president of Delta & Pine Land Co. , a Southwide Inc. subsidiary that is one of the largest in the U.S. producers cotton seed Robinson , said The development could have a dramatic effect on farm production , especially cotton
 On a commercial scale , the sterilization of the pollen - producing male part has only been achieved in corn and sorghum feed grains .
 That because the , male , the tassel part and the , female , the ear are some distance apart on the corn plant 's .
 In a labor - intensive process , the companies seed , cut off making it male sterile . the tassels of each plant
 They . a row of male - fertile plants which the plants male - sterile then pollinate sow , nearby
 The hybrid first corn produced using this approach mechanical seeds were introduced in the 1930s . and they yielded as as much 20 % more corn than naturally pollinated plants
 The majority vast of the corn U.S. crop now is grown from hybrid seeds produced by seed companies .
 A technique similar is . almost to apply to other crops , such as cotton , soybeans and rice impossible
 The part male , , the of the plant anthers and the , female , the pistils of the plant same are within a fraction of an inch or even attached to each other .
 The in these plants anthers are difficult to clip off .
 In China , a of workers great number , are engaged in pulling using tweezers out the of rice plants male organs and one - third of rice produced in that country is grown from hybrid seeds .
 At Plant Genetic Systems , have researchers isolated a pollen - inhibiting that can be inserted in a plant to confer male sterility gene .
 Jan , Leemans research director , said . this gene was successfully introduced in oil - producing , rapeseed plants a major crop in Europe and Canada , using as a carrier a `` promoter gene '' developed by Robert Goldberg at the Angeles University of in California Los
 The gene sterilizing is expressed just the pollen is about to develop before and it deactivates the anthers of every flower in the plant .
 Mr. Leemans said this manipulation genetic does n't hurt the growth of that plant .
 The researchers also pulled a trick genetic engineering second off in order to get in large enough numbers to produce a commercial hybrid seed crop male - sterile plants .
 They attached a second , gene for herbicide resistance , to the pollen - inhibiting gene .
 Both genes are then inserted into a few plants greenhouse , which pollinated and allowed to mature and produce seed are then .
 The of heredity laws dictate that half of the plants springing from these seeds greenhouse - produced will be male sterile and herbicide resistant and half will be male fertile and herbicide susceptible .
 The of herbicide application would kill off the male - fertile plants , leaving a large field of male - sterile plants that can be cross - pollinated to produce hybrid seed .
 Mr. Leemans said the created with this genetic engineering hybrid rapeseeds yield 15 % % more to 30 than the commercial strains used currently output .
 `` This technique is applicable to a wide of crops variety , and added that some modifications may be necessary to accommodate the peculiarities of each type of crop '' he said . ,
 He said the company , experimenting on alfalfa with the technique is and plans to include cotton and corn among other crops , .
 He that even though virtually all corn seeds currently planted are hybrids , obviate the need for mechanical emasculation of anthers , which costs U.S. seed producers about $ 70 million annually the genetic approach will said .
 In recent years , spurred research at a number of chemical and biotechnology including Monsanto Co. , Shell Oil Co. and Eli Lilly & Co companies , has demand for hybrid seeds .
 One developed by some of these companies technique involves a chemical spray supposed to kill only a plant 's pollen .
 But have there been problems with chemical sprays damaging plants ' female reproductive organs and concern for the of such chemical sprays toxicity to humans , animals and beneficial insects .
 However , Paul Johanson , Monsanto 's director of plant sciences , . said '' the company 's chemical spray these problems overcomes and `` is gentle on the female organ
 Biosource Corp. Genetics , Vacaville Calif. , , is developing a spray containing a that to cell spreads from cell and interferes with the genes that are responsible for producing pollen gene .
 This , gene called `` gametocide , '' is carried into the plant by a virus that remains for a few days active .
 Robert , Erwin president of Biosource , called Plant Genetic 's approach . `` interesting '' and `` novel and `` complementary rather than competitive , '' ''
 `` There is a out there large market hungry for hybrid seeds , '' . he said
 Mr. of Delta the producer seed in Scott , Miss. & , Pine , Robinson said Plant Genetic 's in creating genetically engineered male steriles success does n't automatically mean it would be simple to create hybrids in all crops .
 That because pollination while easy in corn because the carrier is wind , , is and involves insects as carriers in crops such as cotton more complex 's .
 `` '' It , 's to say you sterilize can one thing and another then to successfully the plant pollinate , he said .
 , he , said Nevertheless he . negotiating with Plant Genetic to acquire the technology to try breeding hybrid cotton is
 A conflict bitter with global implications has erupted between Nomura Securities Co. two of the world 's most powerful financial companies , and Industrial Japan Bank of .
 The clash is a of a new and divisiveness toughness in Japan 's circles once - cozy financial sign .
 Not only are Japan 's institutions financial putting their enormous clout to work ; they 're squaring against one another off in unprecedented public fashion increasingly .
 Already , the consequences being felt by other players in the financial markets even governments -- are .
 What triggered the latest clash was a skirmish over the timing of a bond New Zealand government issue .
 Nomura attempting to organize the 50 billion - yen ( $ ) 352 million borrowing at a time many Japanese banks , led by Industrial Bank Japan of , were when pressuring the Wellington government to help recover loans made to a bank defunct investment that had been owned by New 's Zealand civil - service pension fund them in Japan was .
 Unwilling to put up until those debts are repaid new money for New Zealand most banks refused , to even play administrative roles in the new financing , forcing an embarrassed Nomura to postpone it this week .
 The dispute shows clearly the power global of Japan 's financial titans .
 Aside from Nomura 's injured pride , the victim biggest so far . has been the New Zealand government
 Barred by its budget law from making any new domestic bond issues , been casting abroad to raise the 3 billion New Zealand dollars it to come up with by the of its fiscal year end next June 30 needs ( US$ 1.76 billion ) to NZ$ 4 billion Wellington 's Debt Management Office . had
 With Japan 's cash - flush banks aligned against it , though . be difficult , raising money may
 Not only they can block from raising in Japan money Wellington but as the underwriters largest in the Eurobond market , they might be able to scuttle borrowings there , too . , say bankers here ,
 New 's Zealand finance , minister David Caygill , lashed out at such suggestions .
 He in Wellington reporters told that the government had , n't guaranteed the loans to DFC , New Zealand Ltd. an investment bank 80% - owned by the National Provident Fund and would n't bail it out Tuesday .
 `` It may very well be what the banks Japanese want , . he Radio New Zealand told ''
 `` think I it be irresponsible would and I am not about to be blackmailed by Japanese banks or any other international interests . ''
 No significant less than the banks Japanese ' attempt to cut off funds to pressure a foreign government are the implications of a confrontation between Japan securities and banking industries .
 Anxiety rising over recent proposals government to eventually lower the strict that -- and protect -- now separate the two industries from each other barriers is .
 Both sides , are jealously their turf guarding . and relations have been for months at a flashpoint
 The banks badly want to break into all of the securities business aspects .
 Meanwhile , the securities most -- of them smaller than the banks -- companies are seeking access only limited kinds of banking that would n't open them to the full brunt of competition from the banks to .
 Nomura , the world 's largely by virtue of its protected home field biggest company securities , , and Industrial of Bank Japan , Japan 's most innovative and aggressive bank in capital markets abroad captain the opposing sides .
 And their suspicions of each other run deep .
 In the past year , have both tried to stretch the limits of their businesses .
 And Industrial Bank of Japan , up started a securities London subsidiary that Japanese stocks sells to non - Japanese overseas institutions a move that stirred the anger of the stock brokerage firms .
 The New Zealand bond issue has simply brought the two institutions face - face to - .
 ITEL CORP. reported third - quarter which were mistakenly shown to be lower than the average of analysts ' estimates in the in yesterday 's edition Quarterly Earnings Surprises table , earnings .
 On a pretax basis , Itel 's third - quarter earnings of 30 cents a share 7.14 % higher than the average of estimates actually were .
 Raymond Ross E. , 53 years old , formerly group vice president , at this machine tool , plastics machinery and robots concern , U.S. plastics machinery , was named senior vice president , industrial systems , succeeding David who resigned Monday A. , Entrekin .
 John Conlon A. Jr. , , 45 was . named a managing director at this investment - banking company
 He be in charge of research , equity sales and trading , and the syndicate operation of Rothschild will .
 Mr. Conlon . executive and director vice president of the equity division of the of Nikko Co Securities international division was
 As Yogi Berra might say , deja vu 's it all over again .
 Crouched at shortstop , Bert , Campaneris once Oakland 's master thief , effortlessly and flips it to second scoops up a groundball .
 In the outfield , a fly elegantly Paul , Blair the ' Orioles eight - time Gold Glove winner , shags .
 On the mound , former Luis Tiant great Red Sox , , the of 1,001 moves wily master throws an off - speed strike .
 `` Babies , kiddies , '' growls their -- manager a fellow who , now in a different time handled four World Series teams and handles the Gold Coast Suns , , named Earl Weaver .
 `` Old - time kiddies . , he '' says
 But for the next months few , these of summers long past boys are going to be reveling in an Indian summer of the soul .
 you see , , Now that the baseball season officially is over it 's . time for a new season begin to
 Today is the debut of the Association Professional Senior Baseball , a modeled after the highly successful senior tennis and golf tours and complete with good a and even expansion plans cable television contract salaries , new , eight - team circuit pro sports .
 One and ninety two hundred former near greats , hardly knowns and unknowns , greats begin . in spring - training stadiums up and down Florida a , 72 - game three - month season
 For everyone involved , 's it one more of that elixir , baseball of youth swig .
 `` Someone always makes quit you , '' . legendary St. Louis Cardinals centerfielder the 's league commissioner , Curt Flood says
 `` feel You you one more -- one more at - bat , game one more one more hit , want . ''
 Until the baby - faced of today heroes reclaim these ballparks for spring training , there . one more is
 And just not for . the players
 It . 's one more for the baseball - loving lawyers , accountants and real estate developers who ponied about $ 1 million up each for the chance to be an owner , to step or have a beer with Rollie Fingers into the shoes of a Autry Gene
 `` . , Nothing can be better than this '' Don Sider , owner of the Tropics West Palm Beach says
 Early in the morning Mr. an lawyer estate Sider , , pores . over last wills and testaments
 Midmorning he , dons an orange - and blue - uniform and for fun , , may field a from Dave Kingman bunt .
 It 's one more the fans who dream of a that never ends season for too , , .
 `` I feel like a kid little , says '' . a gleeful , Alex de a car salesman who has stopped by a workout of the Suns to slip six Campaneris cards to be autographed to the Great Man Himself Castro ,
 The 's league promoters hope retirees and tourists will join die - hard fans like Mr. de Castro and pack the stands to see the seniors .
 The league is the of Colorado real estate developer James Morley who says he had the idea last January while lying on a beach in Australia once -- a minor - himself -- leaguer brainchild .
 When sent he letters offering 1,250 retired major leaguers the chance of another season 730 responded . ,
 Eventually , about 250 to compete for the available slots made the trip to Florida .
 ( have , Players except for catchers who because life behind the plate is so rough at 32 are eligible , to be 35 or older . )
 For some players , is the lure money up $ a month -- to 15,000 .
 Others , just released from the majors , hope the senior league will be their bridge back into the big - time .
 But 's , as they hurl fireballs that smolder rather burn than , and relive old duels in the sun it clear that most are there to make their fans cheer again or recapture or prove to themselves and their colleagues that they still have it -- or something close to it the camaraderie of seasons past .
 `` My fastball is . good
 Real good , '' , says 39 - year - old Pete Broberg . working in the of the Tropics camp midday heat
 Mr. , Broberg who with the now - defunct Washington Senators started , '' that when in 1978 he left baseball , he `` never looked back says .
 For a long time , , he ignored baseball even the sports pages . altogether
 Now Mr. Broberg , , a lawyer claims he 'd play for free .
 `` You ca n't give up it that easily , '' he says .
 `` tried I . ''
 The memory nagging of one afternoon fourteen years ago drove Jim Gideon a righthander lean 36 - old year - , . to take a four - month leave from selling insurance in Texas to try out for Mr. 's Weaver team
 `` It , does n't replace pitching in the majors but it that I would have been able to play if I 'd stayed healthy proves to me , '' says he .
 Back in 1975 , , his only appearance major league , five and two - thirds innings for the Texas Rangers against the Chicago White Sox made a then - 21 Mr. Gideon late in the season .
 He , up gave seven hits walked five and did n't get a decision .
 Arm troubles forced him to the minors back the next year .
 `` There 's a satisfaction in going against the rules , Will a with Cincinnati 's Big Red Machine stopper McEnaney , once '' offers .
 He means the rule that a player ca cut it after a certain age n't .
 These days . hustles he to house - painting jobs before training with the Tropics and after in his Chevy pickup
 While sipping a beer after practice , he recounts vividly getting the 's Red Sox Yastrzemski Carl to pop to end the 1975 World Series out , and repeating against the Yankees ' Roy White the feat in 1976 .
 Some of the game 's philosophers reigning dislike the idea of middle - aged men attempting a young 's man sport .
 `` I personally do enjoy seeing players who I remember vividly from their playing days running about and being gallant about their deficiencies n't , '' says Roger Angell , New Yorker magazine 's resident baseball sage .
 `` feel I people be allowed to remember players as they were should . ''
 Worse says , , Someone will get a heart attack and that will be the end of the whole story `` '' baseball Lawrence Ritter author .
 But the ballplayers disagree .
 Most trim are .
 Some been training for months have ; others only recently left active status .
 ( No one , worked out the players ' average age has . but most appear to be in their 30s late )
 And 's there pride .
 `` sweat dotting his brow as he prepares for some practice swings , I 'm not going to look stupid '' vows , former Rennie Stennett Pittsburgh Pirate second baseman .
 It 's going to be a tough league , promises . `` '' the Campaneris 47 - old year - Mr.
 `` will There be a of malice lot . ''
 Men who have played hard all their lives are n't about to change their habits , . he says
 Nonetheless one , ca help wonder whether the game will be just a little bit slower n't .
 At the weatherbeaten Pompano Beach stadium municipal knows Mr. , , Blair the Oriole 45 - old year - former , . his power is n't it used to what be
 So adjusts he .
 He no longer crowds . the plate
 He not 's thinking about home runs anymore , just base hits .
 Still `` , , he '' , how sweet is it says . savoring the of the well - hit line drive that bounces off the center field wall fat sound
 And do n't expect many -- complete by pitchers games perhaps three out of 288 , Mr. , Fingers the former Oakland reliever laughs .
 Expect `` tricky '' stuff from pitchers , . Mr. Weaver , the manager says
 Expect brushbacks but no beanballs , . Mr. McEnaney says
 Even expect stolen bases , . the wiry and fit Mr. Campaneris says : `` If you to how slide know , it 's no problem , '' he says
 And expect slower fastballs .
 `` I 'm not anymore so young , concedes '' the Mr. cigar - chomping 48 - old year - , Tiant .
 `` . , '' I , wo but I will throw 80 - plus n't be throwing 90 mph says he
 White - haired Pedro at 54 Ramos , the league 's oldest player and a pitcher - with the Suns coach , has lost even more speed .
 Stuffing a wad of Red Man into his cheek , he admits the fastball he brought in 1955 into the majors has become a slowball .
 Its velocity maximum is . 72 mph
 But is he n't . worried
 He compensate with the learned from his years in the majors guile will .
 He has good control .
 He keep the ball , down move around it will .
 , he , says After all `` to Even make love , experience you need .
 Alltel Corp. said it acquire the 55 it does n't that own already % of Pond Branch Inc. Telephone Company 's cellular franchise will .
 Terms n't were disclosed .
 Alltel . 45 % of the which has operations in Aiken , and Augusta Ga , S.C. , , franchise holds
 Alltel , which provides local service telephone in 25 states , said . it exercised following an offer from an undisclosed third party to acquire the majority position in the franchise its right of first refusal
 Stewart Stevenson & Services Inc. . it received two contracts totaling $ 19 million to build gas - turbine generators said
 The contracts separate were . from Paragould Commission & Light Water , and PSE Inc. , a cogeneration - plant operator in Houston a utility in Paragould , Ark. ,
 Stewart Stevenson & makes equipment powered with diesel and gas turbines .
 Liberty Bancorp National said its , acquisition , of Florence Bank Deposit , Florence , Ky. first announced in April has been completed in a transaction valued at $ 13.1 million .
 Liberty National exchanged about 78.64 of its stock common shares for each of Florence Deposit 's outstanding 5,600 shares .
 Liberty , National a company bank holding , has assets exceeding $ 3 billion .
 Hani Zayadi was appointed , , effective Nov. 15 president of this department store financially troubled chain and chief executive officer succeeding Frank Robertson , who is retiring early .
 Mr. Zayadi was previously president of Zellers Inc. a that is owned by Toronto - based Hudson 's Bay Co. , Canada 's largest department store operator retail chain , and chief operating officer .
 Tuesday October 31 1989 , ,
 The U.S. and foreign key annual interest rates below are a guide to general levels . but do n't represent actual transactions always
 PRIME : RATE 10 1\/2 % .
 The rate base on corporate loans at large U.S. money center commercial banks .
 FEDERAL : FUNDS 9 % high 8 % 13\/16 low 8 15\/16 8 7\/8 % near closing bid , , , % offered .
 Reserves among commercial banks traded for overnight use in amounts of $ or more 1 million .
 Source : Fulton Prebon ( . U.S.A ) Inc .
 DISCOUNT : RATE 7 % .
 The on loans charge to depository institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank .
 CALL : MONEY 9 3\/4 to % 10 % .
 The on loans charge to brokers on stock exchange collateral .
 COMMERCIAL placed directly by General Motors Acceptance Corp. PAPER : . ; 8.55 % 30 to 44 days days 8.40 % 60 to 89 days ; ; 8.25 % 45 to 59 days ; 180 270 to 7.80 % 150 to 179 days ; 7.55 % 8 % 90 to 119 days ; 7.90 % 120 149 to days
 COMMERCIAL PAPER : High - grade unsecured notes sold through dealers by major corporations in multiples of $ 1,000 : ; 8.62 % 30 days 8.55 % 60 days ; 8.45 % . 90 days
 CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT : 8.09 % one month ; ; 8.03 % three months 7.96 % six months ; 8.04 % two months ; 7.92 % one year .
 Average of top rates paid usually amounts of $ 1 million and more on on primary of negotiable C.D.s new issues by major New York banks , .
 The unit minimum is . $ 100,000
 Typical in the market secondary rates : 8.53 % one month ; months six 8.50 % three months 8.30 % ; .
 BANKERS ACCEPTANCES 8.27 % 90 days 8.49 % days 30 ; : 8.12 % 120 days ; ; 8.44 % 60 days . ; 8.05 % 150 days ; 7.98 % 180 days
 Negotiable , bank - backed typically financing an import order instruments business credit .
 LONDON EURODOLLARS LATE : ; 8 1\/2 to % 8 3\/8 % 8 3\/4 % to 8 5\/8 % one month ; 8 3\/4 8 5\/8 % % to two months ; 8 11\/16 % to 8 9\/16 % three months 8 9\/16 % to 8 7\/16 % months four ; five ; . 8 7\/16 to % 8 5\/16 % six months months
 LONDON OFFERED INTERBANK RATES ( ) LIBOR : 8 3\/4 % one month ; ; . 8 11\/16 % three months 8 7\/16 % one year 8 7\/16 % six ; months
 The . average for dollar deposits of interbank offered rates based on quotations at five banks major in the London market
 FOREIGN RATES PRIME : Switzerland 8.50 % ; Canada 13.50 % Germany 9 % 15 % . ; Japan 4.875 % ; Britain ;
 These indications rate are directly comparable n't ; lending practices vary widely by location .
 TREASURY BILLS . Results of the Monday , October 30 , 1989 , auction of short - term bills U.S. government , sold at a discount from face value in units of $ 10,000 to $ 1 million : : weeks 7.78 % weeks 13 ; 7.62 % 26
 FEDERAL LOAN HOME MORTGAGE ) CORP ( Freddie . Mac : Posted for delivery within 30 days . yields on 30 - year mortgage commitments
 9.78 , % standard conventional fixed - rate mortgages ; 7.875 % 2 % rate capped one - year adjustable rate mortgages . ,
 Source : Telerate Systems Inc .
 FEDERAL . NATIONAL ASSOCIATION MORTGAGE ( Mae ) Fannie Posted yields on 30 year mortgage commitments ( priced at par ) for delivery within 30 days 6\/2 mortgages rate capped one - year adjustable rate 9.75 % , standard conventional fixed - rate mortgages ; % , 8.75 :
 Source : Telerate Systems Inc .
 MERRILL READY LYNCH ASSETS : TRUST 8.63 % .
 Annualized rate average of return after expenses for the past 30 days ; not . of future returns a forecast
 Canada 's gross domestic product rose an inflation - adjusted 0.3 % mainly a of service - industry growth result as in August , , Statistics Canada , , a federal agency said .
 The GDP August was up 2.4 % from its year - earlier level .
 GDP is the total of a nation 's output of goods and services value .
 Statistics Canada said service - industry output in August rose 0.4 % from July .
 Output of goods - producing industries increased 0.1 % .
 Separately , Statistics Canada that its industrial - product price index its consecutive third monthly decline dropped , 0.2 % in September reported .
 It reported also a decline 2.6 % in its raw - materials price index for September .
 Columbia Entertainment Pictures Inc. was dropped , effective today , from the of the Dow Jones Equity Market Index recreational products and services industry group .
 Columbia Pictures is being acquired by Sony Corp. , which is based in Japan .
 People 's Savings Financial Corp. said it will buy back because the stock is undervalued as much as 10 % of its outstanding 2.4 million shares .
 The company holding said it been `` associated unfairly '' with other banks that had major loan losses in recent quarters have in New England has .
 The company said its People 's Savings Bank unit does n't have a `` to construction and commercial loans that have caused the loan - loss problems in many of the banks large exposure .
 A on the Exchange Chicago Mercantile seat was . sold for $ 410,000 , down from the Oct previous sale $ 6,000
 Seats are currently quoted at $ $ 425,000 asked bid 400,000 , .
 The price record for a membership full on the exchange set March 9 , is $ 550,000 .
 In a surprise move , the British government . the way for a bidding war for Jaguar PLC cleared by agreeing to remove an obstacle to a takeover of the auto maker
 Trade Industry and Secretary Nicholas Ridley told the of House Commons yesterday . that he will relinquish the government 's so - called golden share in the company as long as Jaguar shareholders agree
 The share golden restricts any holding individual to 15 % and expires at the end of 1990 .
 Mr. Ridley It `` , in Jaguar 's interests best was for the company 's future to and the of uncertainty present climate resolved as quickly as possible be assured '' said .
 Mr. 's Ridley decision fires the starting pistol for perhaps a costly for Britain 's leading luxury - car maker contest between the world 's giants auto .
 Both Motors General Corp. and Ford Motor Co. have been trying to amass 15 % in Jaguar stakes .
 Ford , which already an holding 13.2 % unwelcome has , is and had lobbied the government to lift the takeover restrictions early prepared to bid for the entire company .
 GM been negotiating a transaction friendly with Jaguar that would involve joint ventures and an eventual of just under 30 % stake likely has .
 But the government 's action , which caught Jaguar management flat - footed , may scuttle by forcing it to fight for all of Jaguar the GM deal minority .
 `` Stephen Reitman , a European auto industry analyst at UBS - & Phillips Drew , '' I ca n't believe they ( GM ) will let Ford have a free run said .
 `` am I sure they be going for a full bid will . ''
 Many investors certainly believe a war bidding is imminent .
 Jaguar shares skyrocketed yesterday . after Mr. Ridley 's announcement following their on London 's Exchange Stock temporary suspension ,
 In late trading , were the shares up a -- a gain 16.3 % -- 122 pence whopping ( $ 1.93 ) . on very heavy volume of 9.7 million shares to a record 869 pence
 In the U.S. over - the - counter market Jaguar shares trading as American Depositary Receipts , closed at $ 13.625 , up $ 1.75 .
 Analysts expect Ford will make the first move , perhaps today , with an of about 900 pence ( $ 14.25 ) a share initial offer .
 Such proposal a values at more than 1.6 # billion ( billion $ 2.53 ) Jaguar .
 Speculation about a takeover fight has sent Jaguar shares soaring in the weeks past six .
 The price share was languishing before Ford 's announcement Sept. 19 of its interest in a minority stake at about 400 pence .
 Ford `` is in the seat driving at the moment , '' Bob an auto at brokers James Capel & Co analyst Barber , . observed
 An Ford aggressive bid for Jaguar would put on GM pressure to make as the 's British company `` white knight a better offer . ''
 Such countermove a could end Jaguar 's hopes for remaining independent and British - owned .
 But is it n't clear GM how long be willing to fight Ford for Jaguar would .
 Because of their longstanding rivalry , wants just GM `` to make Ford for ( Jaguar ) pays a huge packet sure , '' said John Lawson , an auto at London 's Nomura Research Institute analyst .
 People close to the GM - Jaguar talks agreed . that Ford now may be able to shut out General Motors
 `` '' It , 's either going to be a shootout or there be one player in town only may , one person said .
 Another close to the talks person , `` It if an out - and - out bidding war were to start now is very hard to justify paying for Jaguar a silly price said . ''
 In a statement , '' they `` were not and were surprised at the action taken consulted about the ( ) Ridley decision in advance Jaguar 's board said .
 The statement emphasized that holders representing 75 % of the shares voting at a ' special shareholders meeting must agree to lift the takeover restrictions .
 Jaguar in the U.S. officials noted that Ford as Jaguar 's largest shareholder , the to call for such a meeting power has now , .
 U.S. analysts auto also that Ford is in the best position to benefit from the of Jaguar shares that have moved over the past month into the hands of arbitragers waiting for the highest takeover bid large number noted .
 analysts Jaguar 's own defenses against a hostile bid are weakened because fewer than 3 of its shares % are owned by employees and management . add , ,
 Ford in the U.S. officials declined to comment on the British government 's action or on any plans to call a special Jaguar shareholders meeting .
 But GM officials they surprised by the which left them to consider all our options and explore matters further `` move , , , too were '' said .
 , disclosed how many shares it now owns it has yet Although GM has U.S. to buy up 15 to % of Jaguar 's stock approval n't .
 In a prepared statement , suggested GM its for Jaguar plans would be more than the initial windfalls investors might reap from a hostile Ford bid valuable in the long run .
 , '' `` Our intensive discussions , with Jaguar at their invitation `` to create a cooperative business relationship with Jaguar that would provide for the continued independence of this great company car British to ensure a secure for its employees future and to provide an return attractive long - term for its shareholders , as their objectives '' have . , GM said
 Jaguar shocked by Mr. 's Ridley decision because management had believed the government would n't lift the share golden without consulting the company first , was .
 , the government . is Indeed taking a calculated risk
 Mr. 's Ridley announcement off set a howl of protests from members who accused the Thatcher administration of backing down on promised protection for a privatized company of the Labor Party opposition , .
 The government British retained the golden single share after selling its stake in Jaguar in
 The government Conservative 's decision reflect its to shed well the , next election expected in late 1991 before a issue politically sensitive desire may .
 `` Daniel Jones , professor of motor industry management at the University Cardiff of in Wales , '' It 's now a to get this over and done with time very good politically observed .
 The , government already by high interest and a slowing economy rates buffeted , has been badly hurt by last week 's shake - up in Mrs. Thatcher 's cabinet .
 At the same time , want to appear by allowing a stake minority that might preclude a full bid by Ford to favor GM did the government n't .
 Mr. Ridley hinted at this motive in answering questions from members of Parliament after his announcement .
 He said he was giving `` the golden share up to clear so the playing field between all contestants is level the way . ''
 Bradley Stertz A. in Detroit contributed . to this article
 Dow Co. Chemical , Midland Mich. , , and Eli Lilly & Co. Indianapolis , , said . they the formation of Dow Elanco , a joint venture combining their plant - sciences businesses as well as Dow 's business industrial pest - control completed
 The companies said Dow Elanco be the in North America research - based largest agricultural concern with projected first - year revenue of $ 1.5 billion , will .
 Dow own 60 of the venture % , with Eli Lilly the rest holding will .
 The venture will be based in Indianapolis .
 William Wise A. , 44 years old , president of the unit El Paso Natural Gas Co. of this energy and natural - resources concern , was named to the additional post of chief executive officer , succeeding Travis Petty H. 61 , , who continues as a vice chairman of the parent .
 Erwin , Tomash the 67 - year - old founder of this maker of data communications products and a chairman former and chief executive , resigned as a director .
 Dataproducts fighting a offer hostile tender by DPC Acquisition Partners , a group led by New York - based Crescott Investments Associates is .
 , Under the circumstances Mr. Tomash said he was because of other commitments unable to devote the time required . Dataproducts , said
 Mr. Tomash will remain as a director emeritus .
 The company had no on whether a replacement would be named comment .
 Robert , Q. , Marston president University Florida of emeritus , , and a director of this maker of medical devices was named chairman .
 Dr. , Marston 66 years old , succeeds Alexander T. Daignault who did n't stand for re - election due to mandatory board retirement policy , 72 , .
 SFE Technologies said William Kuehn P. was elected chairman and chief executive officer of this troubled maker electronics parts .
 The 45 - year - old Mr. Kuehn , who has a background in crisis management , Alan Rubendall D. , 45 succeeds .
 Jerome Jahn J. , executive president vice and chief financial officer , said Mr. Rubendall was resigning by `` agreement mutual '' with the board .
 `` He is going to pursue other interests , '' Mr. Jahn said .
 Mr. Rubendall could n't . be reached
 , the company , said Mr. Kuehn will . retain the rest of the current management team
 , SFE Technologies reported For the nine months ended July 29 . a on sales of $ 23.4 million net loss of $ 889,000
 That with an of $ million 1.9 operating loss on sales of $ 27.4 million in the year - earlier period compared .
 In national over - the - counter trading SFE Technologies shares up 6.25 cents yesterday , closed . , at 31.25 a share cents
 Sales of new cars in Europe fell 4.2 % in September from a year earlier and analysts say the market could continue to soften in the months ahead .
 After a stronger - than expected - pace this early year , . analysts say the market signs of retreating , , now shows after a of sharp swings series in recent months
 Statistics from 12 countries which account normally for 94 % of non - communist Europe 's sales passenger car showed new car registrations totaled 911,606 in September , down from August 21 % and down 4.2 % for the to date year .
 Tokyo stocks rebounded Tuesday in relatively active dealings from two consecutive daily losses .
 London shares also rose while trading in Frankfurt West Germany , , ended higher , .
 In Tokyo , the of 225 issues selected Nikkei index was up 132.00 points . to 35549.44
 The index fell 109.85 . Monday
 Volume on the First Section was estimated at 900 million shares , up from 582 million shares Monday .
 Advancing issues outnumbered decliners 542 362 to , while 208 issues were unchanged .
 Small - lot buying targeted at incentive - backed issues pushed up . the Nikkei
 But other sectors , to attract investor interest failed . and remained sluggish making overall trading appear mixed
 Individuals and corporations , as as well dealers trading for their own account , actively bought Tuesday .
 An at Wako Securities official said these investors despite destabilizing , external factors such as political uncertainty tied to the ruling party 's fate at next year 's Lower House an which could directly affect the market stock event elections - the need to make quick profits feel , .
 The Tokyo Stock Price of all issues listed in the First , which declined 5.16 on Monday Section , Index on Tuesday was up 16.05 , or 0.60 % , at 2692.65 .
 The Second Section index which Monday 21.44 points fell , , was to close at 3642.90 up 6.84 , points , or 0.19 % .
 Second Section volume was estimated , at 14 million shares unchanged from Monday .
 Institutional investors mostly remained on the sidelines Tuesday .
 A manager fund at a life - insurance company said three factors difficult to read market direction make it .
 , he , said First domestic interest rates likely to stay at higher levels are as increased anticipation of inflation followed rising consumer prices reported last week .
 Second . the dollar , is showing persistent strength despite a slowdown in the U.S. economy shown by economic indicators
 Third , oil prices declined although supply has been increasing have n't .
 The topic that attracted participants ' attention was Mitsubishi Estate 's purchase announced late Monday in New York of 51 % of Rockefeller Center Properties , .
 Mitsubishi Estate ended the day at 2680 , up 150 .
 The gains also sparked buying in other real - estate companies interest , traders said .
 Sumitomo & Realty Development to 2170 rose 40 .
 Heiwa Estate Real gained to 2210 40 .
 Investor focus shifted quickly , said traders .
 Many of the morning - session winners turned to be losers out by afternoon .
 In other stock - market news , the Stock Tokyo Exchange said . that for the week ended Friday the balance of margin buying , rose 189.8 billion yen ( $ billion 1.34 ) to 7.160 trillion yen ( ) $ billion 50.46 ,
 The of short outstanding positions balance fell 159.7 billion yen , to 779.8 billion yen .
 In London prices , finished comforted by a and news that the British government will waive its `` golden share in auto maker Jaguar '' reassuring early performance on Wall Street , at intraday peaks .
 But was , trading very sketchy . as investment decision makers remain wary from gyrations of recent weeks and upsets
 `` Volume has been appalling , a dealer at a concern British brokerage '' said .
 The market was `` dragged by the of its neck scruff up by by market getting caught short makers Wall Street and .
 No one wants stock on their books . ''
 Meanwhile the broad - based Financial Times 100 - share index while reaching its minimum of 2120.5 a half hour into the session added , , 30.4 points to end at 2142.6 .
 At the close , the index 30 - share narrower was up 19.7 points . to 1721.4
 Volume totaled a modest shares 334.5 million , . up from 257.8 million shares Monday
 The market also moved at early afternoon on news that Jaguar shares were being temporarily suspended at 746 ( $ 11.80 ) pence each .
 Secretary of State for Trade Industry and Nicholas Ridley said later in the day that the government would abolish its golden share in Jaguar , the luxury auto maker being stalked by General Motors and Ford Motor .
 The share golden dates . and was designed to protect from takeover the company from Jaguar 's public in 1984 offering
 The share golden was scheduled to expire at the beginning of
 But although the golden share been waived has , a hostile bidder for Jaguar . would still have to alter the British concern 's articles of association which ban shareholdings of more than 15 %
 Jaguar shares closed at 869 pence , up 122 pence , on hefty turnover of 9.7 million shares .
 As the London trading session to a close drew , the market . was still listening to the parliamentary on the economy debate , with new Chancellor of the Exchequer John Major expected to clarify his approach to the and currency issues British economy
 On the Frankfurt Stock Exchange share prices in fairly thin trading higher , closed . , as selective buying by foreigners helped propel prices
 The index DAX closed , at 1472.76 up from 1466.29 .
 Despite the modest gains , . traders the market , remains with investors on the sidelines remaining cautiously dull said
 Additionally , the end of the month position - squaring might also have played a minor role . , said traders
 Elsewhere share prices , closed in Amsterdam Brussels , Milan and Paris , higher .
 Prices in Zurich mixed were . and lower in Stockholm
 Stocks . closed in Hong , Kong Manila Singapore , Sydney and Wellington , , but were lower in Seoul higher
 Taipei closed for a holiday was .
 Here are price trends on the world 's major stock markets , as calculated by Morgan Perspective Stanley Capital International , Geneva .
 To make them directly comparable , each index based on the close of 1969 100 equaling is .
 The change percentage is since year - end .
 French prices consumer rose in September 0.2 % from the previous month and were up 3.4 % from a year earlier . , according to definitive figures from the National Statistics Institute
 The agency state 's figures confirm previous estimates and leave the index , at 178.9 up from 178.5 and 173.1 a year earlier in August .
 The index is based on 1980 equaling 100 .
 A breakdown showed that food prices were the most active part of growth with a rise of 0.6 % .
 An official linked the gain essentially to higher for beef and pork prices .
 He said summer drought that had hit several southern agricultural regions problems had stopped in September being a of price pressure major source .
 Japan 's index of leading indicators rose to 63.6 above the boom - or - bust so - called line of 50 in August , for the first time since May , the Economic Planning Agency said .
 The index leading recovered from July 's revised of 36.6 level on strong performances in consumer , durables and machinery orders among other factors , . according to an agency spokeswoman
 The index is intended to measure future economic performance .
 A above 50 figure indicates the economy is likely to expand ; . one below 50 a contraction be ahead may indicates
 Metromedia Co. said its Metromedia Distance Long unit been renamed , Metromedia Long - ITT Distance reflecting acquisitions from ITT Corp. , which licenses its name to closely held Metromedia has .
 Metromedia said its unit with projected 1989 revenue of more than $ 550 million , is the fifth - largest provider of long - distance communications service in the U.S. .
 Metromedia headed by John Kluge W. , , has interests in telecommunications robotic computer software restaurants and entertainment , painting , , .
 South Korean consumer prices 5 % rose in the first 10 months of this year matching the 's government target for the entire year , , according to the Bank Korea of and the Economic Planning Board .
 domestic consumer and wholesale prices each in October , rose According to reports released by the two government agencies from the previous month by 0.2 % .
 As a result , consumer for the 10 first months of 1989 prices surged by 5 % and by 1.3 % wholesale prices .
 The South Korean government been projecting a 5 % consumer price increase for the entire year had .
 Martin Corp. Marietta said it won a $ million 38.2 contract to manufacture and install automated mail - sorting machines from the U.S. Postal Service .
 Under terms of the three - year contract , Martin Marietta . said it will make and install 267 of the new machines at 156 postal offices
 The machines new are capable of sorting by zip code up to 10,000 large including magazines and parcels pieces flat mail , , an hour .
 Thomas Donovan A. , 37 years old , formerly vice president , at this hazardous - waste - site remediation concern West Coast operations , , was named executive vice and chief operating and a director , filling a vacancy , officer , president both posts newly created .
 Canonie said it anticipates naming Mr. Donovan to succeed Richard F. Brissette , 55 , , as president and chief officer executive effective March 1 .
 Mr. Brissette will remain a Canonie board member and will be a consultant to the company .
 Yields on savings - type of deposit certificates dropped slightly in the week ended yesterday .
 The yield average on a six - month of $ 50,000 or less CD , was compared with 7.94 % a week earlier 7.90 % .
 The average one - year savings - type CD was , down to 7.99 % from 8.01 % according to Banxquote Money Markets , a New York information service that tracks CD yields .
 `` This week was for the CD market uneventful , '' said . Norberto Mehl , chairman of Banxquote
 `` The major banks even have n't reacted to sharp rises in the rates three - month Treasury bill in the past two weeks '' .
 , . he Banks that adjusted payouts on CDs in the most recent week made only fractional moves said
 The trend CD runs . counter to the direction at the Monday Treasury bill auction of short - term interest rates
 The average six - month bill . sold with a yield of 8.04 % , up from 7.90 % was
 The average three - month issue rose to 8.05 % from 7.77 % .
 Typically banks , offer CD higher than those on Treasury bills which are considered the safest short - term investments , yields ; banks need a competitive edge to sell their products .
 But when market interest rates up move rapidly increases in bank CD yields sometimes lag . ,
 Most on short - term those with denominations over $ 90,000 CDs jumbo , yields , in the opposite direction of Treasury bill yields also moved .
 Banxquote said The average six - month on a CD jumbo yield , , was at 7.90 % down from 7.93 % .
 , . were yields For longer - term CDs up
 The average two - year and five - year jumbos were up 0.02 of a percentage point to 7.91 and 7.96 % % , respectively .
 However CDs sold through major broker - dealer networks , were up . almost the board across slightly
 The average six - month in that category CD , . 0.05 percentage point to 8.35 % added for example
 Mr. Mehl the rise attributed specifically to the Treasury bill increase .
 Among the major banks surveyed by Banxquote in six regions of the country , the available highest yield 8.33 % . is
 It offered by the banks flagship of New York 's Manufacturers Hanover Corp. in the only one - year maturity is .
 The yield . offered at San Francisco 's Corp. BankAmerica and Wells Fargo Co & across a range of maturities is
 Just two weeks ago , BankAmerica 's yields in many of those maturities was . 8.61 %
 Still on average , , the major California banks , . the highest yields on CDs have according to Banxquote
 The yield average there on six - month issues is 8.32 % .
 I to reach to French 101 back had when the monsieur avec clipboard leaned during the phase coffee of dinner and asked whether I wanted to ride in a montgolfiere over my shoulder .
 I was a last - minute ( read ) interloping attendee at a French journalism convention and so far the festivities had been taken up entirely by eating , drinking , smoking , sleeping and drinking .
 The with the clipboard man represented a halfhearted to introduce into our itinerary a bit of les sportif attempt .
 But as the French a Zen - like state of blase embody when it comes to athletics , my fellow conventioners having none of it were ( try finding a Nautilus machine in Paris ) .
 The at my table diners simply and scoffed at the suggestion of interrupting a morning perfectly good Saturday to go golfing or even montgolfing ( ballooning to you the world 's balloonists first hot - air ; the brothers Montgolfier French , of course , were ) more Gauloises lit .
 Back in the U.S.A. this of chi-chi activity airborne kind wins . heartwarmingly covetous responses
 As : in `` You ! went ? ballooning ? !
 In ? France ? '' ! !
 it seems Americans have . followed Malcolm Forbes 's hot - air lead and taken in a way heady to ballooning
 During the past 25 years , the number of balloonists ( those ) who have passed a Federal Aviation Authority lighter - than - air test have swelled from a couple hundred , to several thousand with some estimates as as 10,000 high running .
 Some 30 balloon shows held annually in the U.S. , including the world 's -- largest convocation of ersatz Foggs Phineas the nine - day Albuquerque International Balloon Fiesta that attracts some 800,000 enthusiasts and more than 500 some of which are fetchingly to resemble Carmen Miranda , Garfield or a 12 - story - high condom shaped balloons , are .
 ( The condom balloon this year denied official entry status was . )
 But none of these Yankee - come - lately enthusiasms for things aloft was in Epinal , a river 16th - century gray town adjacent to France 's mountain Vosges region , evident .
 Ballooning at the de rigueur of 6 a.m. hour held all the of sunrise root - canal work attraction for most people .
 Feeling the naggings of a imperative culture , promptly I signed up .
 The thing first anybody tell you will about ballooning is that it requires zip in the way of athletic , prowess or even a measure of derring - do .
 ( long So as you n't do look down . )
 They also will tell that even if you hate heights , still you can balloon you .
 ( still I say do look down n't .
 At least not you when ascending are . )
 they wo n't What tell you is not go aloft in anything you want to get wet do n't to .
 I not 'm referring to the during the toast back - firma on - terra - champagne traditional drenching .
 I talking about landing in a canal 'm .
 In a porous wicker basket .
 With a pilot who no English speaks .
 To wit , my ( and are novitiates referred to as virgins ) maiden voyage at dawn began on a dew - sodden fairway . and ended at noon in a soggy field
 ( Balloon flights almost always at dawn when are the winds lightest , or dusk occur . )
 came In between lots of coffee drinking while watching the balloons inflate and lots of standing around deciding who fly in what balloon and in what order would ( hold the baskets no more than four passengers ) .
 When was it n't my in the balloon turn I followed listening to the driver holler into a walkie - talkie its progress from the `` chase car '' , .
 came After long stretches of this ground attendant activity 20 or so lovely minutes of drifting watching the silver mists rise off the river and the French cows amble about the fields above the Vosges .
 It with this kind of bird ' s - eye view of the world hard even if your pilote in silly plaid beret kept pointing out how '' `` belle all it was , 's . not feel that God in his heaven 's to
 Eventually little French farmers and their little French farmwives came out of their stone houses and put above their tiny eyes their hands and squinted at us .
 No . wonder
 We coming down straight into their canal were .
 See , the other of thumb rule about ballooning is that you steer ca n't .
 And can neither your pilot .
 You go only up or down ( heating the balloon 's air with a which does make the top of your head feel hot propane burner , by ) and ride the air currents can .
 Which makes the chase car . necessary
 Most balloonists seldom go higher than 2,000 feet and most average a an hour leisurely 5-10 miles .
 the balloon is When cruising at a altitude steady along there is . little sense of motion
 one is Only when ascending -- our case -- in or descending a tad trop rapidement does one feel well , , airborne in a picnic basket .
 `` What 's he doing my companion , who the of the convention only other member English - speaking was and whose knuckles were white ? hissed '' .
 `` , Attention '' our pilot yelled as our basket plunged into the canal .
 I yelled , , '' back leaping atop the propane tanks `` You bet attention `` I wearing alligator loafers 'm ! '' ,
 Our pilot simply laughed . , fired and with another blast of flame , lifted oh us , a good 12 - inches above the water level the burner up
 We along scuttled for a feet few before he plunged us into the drink again .
 Eventually came we to rest in a soggy of field patch where the exquisite pleasure of scrambling out of the basket into the mud while the French half of our ballooning tag team scrambled in we had .
 I at my watch looked .
 Barely half - an - aloft hour .
 Back in the chase car , we , around drove . some more got stuck in a ditch enlisted the aid of a local farmer to get out and pull us out of the ditch the trailer hitch ,
 We rendezvoused finally with our , balloon which come to rest amid a of Epinalers who watched us disassemble our craft -- another half - an - of non - flight that the precision routine of yanking the balloon to the ground , punching out of it all air the , rolling it up and cramming it and the basket into the trailer included activity -- hour clutch on a dirt road had .
 It was the most we 'd had all morning exercise and it was followed by our to the nearest watering hole driving immediately .
 This returning to the course golf , where we watched a duffers few French maul while we sat under Cinzano umbrellas , me nursing an espresso and my ego the first tee meant .
 A morning whole of ballooning and I had been off the ground barely 30 minutes .
 Still I , figured the 's event envy - quotient back in the U.S.A. was near peerless .
 As for the ride back to camp , into the chase car our pilot and all French - speaking the other passengers clambered .
 My companion American and I were left to ride alfresco in the wicker basket .
 As we streaked by a gendarme blase , . I n't resist rearing up and saluting on my soggy loafers could
 Ms. Vries de is a free - lance writer .
 Treasury Undersecretary David Mulford defended the Treasury 's efforts this fall to drive down the value of the dollar saying it helped minimize damage from the 190 - point in the stock market drop Oct. 13 , .
 Testifying before a House subcommittee , Mr. Mulford that if the Treasury had n't intervened in September and early October in foreign - exchange markets to reduce the dollar 's value have provoked a steep fall in the currency that might have `` unhinged financial markets , might the plunge in the stock market '' said .
 Mr. Mulford , responding to critics of intervention , also intervention is taken seriously by financial markets and works better than `` was recognized some time ago `` , '' is highly visible . said ''
 Differences between the Treasury and the Federal Reserve on the usefulness of intervention to help restrain the dollar resurfaced at the hearing .
 Fed Chairman Vice Manuel , Johnson who had dissented from the Treasury 's policy , , I became convinced about what looked to me like an attempt to push the dollar down against the fundamentals in the market told '' `` lawmakers .
 , he , added Intervention is useful only smooth disorderly markets to , not to fundamentally the 's dollar value influence .
 Rep. LaFalce John ( N.Y . D. , ) said Mr. Johnson instead refused to testify jointly with Mr. Mulford and asked to appear after the Treasury official had completed his testimony .
 A spokesman Fed denied Mr. 's LaFalce statement .
 Mr. Mulford reports of tension between the and Fed Treasury have been exaggerated said , . '' insisting that they nuances involved ``
 Mr. Johnson also '' that `` , in the of things scheme these things are minor said .
 On other matters , West Germany is contributing to imbalances in the world economy because its success as an exporter of Mr. Mulford said .
 `` The solution is stronger growth domestic { Germany in } , said '' he .
 , But difficult it because the growth of the German economy has been stronger than expected 's for the U.S. to argue that Germany ought to adopt more stimulative monetary and fiscal policies . Mr. Mulford said ,
 Germany 's trade surplus largely other countries European with rather than with the U.S. is , . Mr. Mulford acknowledged
 But nonetheless U.S. companies be more successful in European markets if not for the German export push might said , he .
 Five of this firm investment banking officials E. Michael R. Dabney who directs the which funding for leveraged acquisitions provides group principal activities , , a 44 director managing ; Richard Harriton ; , a 53 general partner , who heads the services correspondent clearing Michael Minikes , 46 , a general partner who treasurer is ; and William J. Montgoris , who senior of finance vice president and chief officer financial is also partner 42 , general a Garrett Bewkes ; a 38 - year - old managing director in the mergers and acquisitions department III , were elected directors : .
 The board increased by one to 26 members .
 In the past year one inside director , resigned , while three others retired .
 Some allies U.S. are complaining that President Bush pushing conventional - arms talks , too quickly creating a that negotiators will make errors that could affect the security of Western Europe for years risk is .
 Concerns about the pace of the Vienna talks -- which are aimed at the as well as major reductions and realignments of troops in central Europe destruction of some 100,000 weapons , -- are also . being registered at the Pentagon
 Mr. Bush has called for an agreement by next September at the latest .
 But some American defense officials believe the North Atlantic Treaty Organization should take more time to examine the long - term implications of the options being considered .
 For one thing , . worry that the U.S. have a much tougher time persuading Europeans to keep on their soil some short - range nuclear weapons once Soviet forces armored thinned out are will Pentagon , officials who asked not to be identified ,
 At the same time , contend they that a reduction of NATO forces under a treaty will increase the of a conventional Soviet attack possibility unless the West retains a residual force of nuclear weapons in Europe .
 Allies concerned about the deadline include the British French and smaller some of whom have adequate staffs to provide quick answers to the questions being raised by what generally are considered the arms - control most complex talks ever attempted do n't NATO allies , , .
 So far , no ally complained openly preserving the impression that NATO is in line with the position Bush that a quick agreement bringing Soviet conventional forces down to parity with NATO the West 's priority top bargaining is , has .
 But even though NATO negotiators have only 10 months left under the Bush timetable , they wrestling over such seemingly fundamental questions as `` What is a tank ? '' are still
 Five of the six of weapons categories under negotiation have n't even . been defined
 Tanks are currently defined as armored vehicles weighing 25 tons or more that carry large guns .
 The Soviets complicated the issue . by offering to include light tanks , which are as light as 10 tons
 Oleg Grinevsky A. , the Soviet chief negotiator in the conventional - arms talks , argued . that this mean the Soviets would have to destroy some 1,800 tanks , while the U.S. would lose none because it in Europe has no tanks light would
 But the issue is stickier than it seems .
 France Britain and Italy , have all light tanks they would like to keep out of the talks .
 And some U.S. Army analysts that the Soviet proposed redefinition is aimed at blocking the U.S. from developing lighter , more transportable , high - technology tanks worry .
 Defining combat aircraft is . even tougher
 The Soviets , insisted that aircraft brought into the talks be then . argued for exempting because they `` are solely defensive some 4,000 Russian planes ''
 NATO n't has budged from its insistence that any gun - carrying plane has offensive capability .
 The over that issue dispute , and only President Bush and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev may be able to resolve it , according to one U.S. official , is '' a treaty `` potential stopper .
 Accounting problems raise more issues knotty .
 Greece and Turkey , , for example are suspected of overstating their arsenals in hopes that they can emerge from the arms - reduction treaty with large remaining forces to deter each other .
 Other nations are n't sure how many weapons have they in their own arsenals .
 `` It 's just going to be sloppy , both on our side and theirs { } the Warsaw 's Pact , '' one NATO analyst says .
 So far , neither administration the Bush nor arms - control experts in Congress seem moved by arguments that these problems to thrash out may take more time than President Bush has allowed .
 They that the danger bigger would be that the West would delay action so long that the Soviets back away from the current conciliatory attitude might argue .
 `` So what if you miss 50 tanks somewhere ? '' asks Rep. Norman Dicks , ( ) D. , Wash. a member of the House group that visited the talks in Vienna .
 `` The bottom line that if we get that superiority { } Warsaw Pact brought down to parity can , we ought to keep pressing ahead as quickly as possible is .
 I more worry about things becoming so unraveled that they might become unable to negotiate on the other side .
 International Finance Lease Corp. announced a leasing contract in a involving six Boeing Co. 757-200s transaction with charter carrier Inc. American Trans Air , .
 The of the including spares jets , , value is in excess of $ 250 million .
 Two of the 757-200s are new aircraft to be delivered to American , Trans Air the of Amtran Inc. main subsidiary , in December 1991 and January 1992 .
 Four of the planes were purchased from Singapore Airlines by International Lease in a transaction previously announced .
 Delivery of the first aircraft , . is set for early November a second for December and two for April 1990
 Norway 's unemployment rate for October was 3.6 , % unchanged from September but up from 2.6 % in the same month last year .
 The figure excludes a employed by extraordinary government work programs record number , . the Labor Directorate announced Tuesday
 Including those in the programs state , there 143,800 Norwegians , , without permanent employment or about 6.5 % of the force work up from September 's 136,800 , in October . were
 The of people registered as jobless at the end of October number declined by 900 . to 78,600 from September
 the Directorate said Those employed in state - funded special programs increased by 7,400 to 65,200 , in the same period .
 In October 1988 , 40,800 fewer employed by government programs there were .
 Coca Cola - Co. , aiming to boost soft - drink volume in Singapore , . said it is discussing a joint venture with Fraser & Neave Ltd. , its bottling in that country franchisee
 The venture would be the in Coke 's rapid expansion of overseas investment latest .
 So far this year has , it put nearly $ 700 million into bottling operations in Australia , New and France Zealand .
 The move also reflects Coke 's eagerness to have a hand in developing the in Pacific Basin countries soft - drink markets .
 Aside from Europe , the division Pacific is Coke will be where focusing much of its attention for years to come .
 That because when to the area Pacific Coke looks , it an mine economic and demographic gold sees 's .
 , economies In countries such as Taiwan , South Korea and Singapore . are growing , resulting in a in disposable income consumers can that use for soft drinks rise
 And unlike Europe and the U.S. populations are where aging , , the Pacific Basin countries growing of youths -- the heaviest consumers of Coca - Cola and other sodas proportions have .
 A Coca - Cola spokesman said it is too early to say the joint venture or the company would how much invest in the transaction , would be how structured .
 In the past , taken a minority stake in such ventures however Coke has , typically .
 By acquiring stakes in bottling in the U.S. and overseas companies , . Coke has been able to improve bottlers ' efficiency and production , and in some cases marketing ,
 Coke tended to increase when were in a given country results sluggish its control has .
 That n't does appear to be the case in Singapore , a with a relatively high soft - drink consumption rate -- a key of Coke 's success in a market indicator country of about three million people .
 In Singapore , per - capita consumption is about one - third that of the U.S. .
 And combining Fraser & 's Neave own soft drinks with Coca - Cola 's gives more half than the share of the soda market there the Singapore company , Coke . said
 Fraser Neave & , which has also interests in packaging , beer and dairy products , holds the for Malaysia and Brunei , where per - capita consumption n't is as high as in Singapore Coke licenses .
 Coke be interested in more quickly developing some of the untapped potential in those markets could .
 A spokesman Coke said he n't could say whether that is the direction of the talks .
 Coke said the joint - venture which needs approval from both companies ' boards , arrangement , should be completed early next year .
 AMERICAN Inc. BRANDS , Old Greenwich , Conn. , said it increased from 61 cents to 68 a share cents its quarterly 11 % payable Dec. 1 to stock of record Nov. 10 , .
 The increase , follows the 's company report of strong earnings for the third quarter and reflects what called American Brands its `` tradition of sharing earnings growth '' with shareholders .
 American Brands is a company consumer products with core businesses in tobacco distilled spirits and life insurance , .
 As of Sept. 30 , American Brands had 95.2 million shares outstanding .
 Giovanni Agnelli & Co. announced a transaction that strengthen its indirect control of Fiat S.p . A. will and will admit Prince Karim Aga Khan as its first shareholder non - family .
 Giovanni , Agnelli a partnership limited that is the master holding company for Fiat 's family Agnelli , owns approximately 75 % of the shares in Istituto Finanziario Industriale , which owns in turn approximately 40 % of Fiat Italy 's group private - sector biggest industrial , .
 The company said Maria Teodorani Sole Agnelli , , sister of Fiat Chairman Giovanni Agnelli agreed to trade her in IFI shares , for new ordinary shares in the limited partnership which will give her control of 4.67 of Giovanni Agnelli & Co % .
 The Khan Aga , agreed meanwhile , to trade some of his stake in Luxembourg - based Ifint , S.A. another Agnelli family company , for 7.45 % of Giovanni Agnelli & Co. 's capital .
 His stake new would be in the form of preferred shares , which receive but have voting rights only in extraordinary shareholders assemblies higher dividends .
 The Khan Aga , 10 of Ifint 's capital % owns while IFI owns 23 % .
 As a result of the , transaction which expected to be approved at a shareholders meeting Nov. 24 is , Giovanni Agnelli & Co. will control 79.18 % of IFI 's ordinary shares .
 Its capital also will be raised to 232.4 billion lire ( $ ) 172.5 million from the current lire 204.3 billion .
 IFI has also nonvoting , preferred shares which quoted on the exchange Milan stock are .
 The of the transactions two value , was n't . but an IFI spokesman no cash would change hands said disclosed
 The move strengthens the between the and the Aga who is a longtime family friend and frequently goes sailing with Mr. Agnelli the head of the 's world Ismaili Moslems Khan , Agnellis existing links .
 Mr. and the Khan Aga Agnelli also , . have some business ties and a spokesman for the Agnelli company n't did rule out that the current agreement could lead to further collaboration
 For instance , Ifint earlier year this bought an 18 % stake in Alisarda , , the 's Aga Khan airline which flies between Italy and Sardinia .
 Giovanni Agnelli & Co. which was formed in January 1987 as a way of keeping the Agnellis ' stake controlling in Fiat together despite an ever - growing family tree , , has been playing a more active in the group Agnelli role of late .
 It , financing of 300 billion lire raised for the purchase this summer of the food concern Galbani S.p . A. by another Agnelli - related group by selling a chunk of its IFI shares to Mediobanca S.p . A.
 Mediobanca . said that it agreed to sell the shares for 333 billion lire back to Giovanni Agnelli during the weekend
 Your Oct. 2 page - one article on people riding so - called `` railbikes '' on railroad tracks was a disservice to your readers .
 It encourages unfortunately others to engage in a highly dangerous and illegal activity only a very few that now doing are .
 And treats , it in a frivolous cavalier , fashion such activities . with total indifference to common sense and public safety
 MCI Corp. Communications said it received a three - year contract valued at more 15 than $ million to provide network , credit - card and other telecommunications services to Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc .
 Congressional and the administration Bush Democrats , agreed on a compromise minimum - wage bill . opening the way for the first wage - floor boost in more than nine years
 The agreement ended a between the leaders congressional and the White House long impasse over the wage issue .
 President Bush in June vetoed a measure passed by Congress and said he would n't accept any rise minimum - wage that went beyond limits he set early in this year 's debate on the issue .
 The compromise was a version somewhat softened of the White House had said it would what accept .
 Under the agreement with the House and Senate leaders , the minimum wage would . rise from the current 3.35 $ an hour to $ 4.25 an hour by April 1991
 Employers also could pay a '' subminimum training `` wage for 90 days , to new workers who are up 19 to years old and for another 90 days if the company institutes a specific training program for the newcomers then .
 White House officials were delighted that the compromise includes the concept of a training Mr. Bush fought for which throughout the year has wage , .
 `` For the first in history time , have we a training that will be part '' of the nation 's labor laws wage , said Roger Porter , assistant to the president for economic and domestic policy .
 White House aides said that although they made a small compromise on the length of a training wage , the final minimum - wage increase will meet the standards set by Mr. Bush .
 The vetoed by the president in June bill , the House failed to which override , would have lifted the minimum wage to $ 4.55 an hour by late 1991 with a training generally a worker 's first job for , wage for up to two months , .
 Mr. Bush had been holding for a boosting the wage floor to $ 4.25 an hour by the end of 1991 bill , coupled with a six - month wage training for workers newly hired by any employer out .
 Under the compromise , the $ 4.25 level be reached , nine months earlier unless it is tied to a training plan , while the training subminimum be shorter would would .
 Democrats that the wage training was a of allowing employers to pay while new workers need far less than six months to be trained for their jobs less than the minimum wage , way argued .
 Democrats been negotiating on a compromise with some Republican congressional leaders lately had .
 With congressional elections next year , GOP leaders worried about opposing a rise minimum - wage for low - paid workers at a time Congress is when moving toward a capital - gains tax cut that would directly wealthier taxpayers benefit have .
 Republicans been imploring the House White to compromise on the wage issue have .
 In the Senate , Edward Kennedy ( D. Mass. , ) chairman , and Pete Domenici ( R. , N.M . ) ranking minority of the Budget Committee member , of the Labor Committee , , . have been working on a compromise , and , a official Democratic staff said their soundings that the Senate appeared to be heading toward enough to override another Bush veto strength showed
 The House is scheduled to vote this week on the compromise , as a substitute to a new , bill Democratic itself watered down from last spring 's version .
 The Senate will probably vote not long afterward .
 Some Democrats thought they have compromised too much might .
 Rep. Murphy Austin ( Pa. D. , ) chairman , of the labor standards House subcommittee , they have done better `` if we 'd held their feet to the fire might said . ''
 Mr. Kennedy suggested Democrats '' `` a great deal yielded on the size of the increase , but he concessions from the White House on the training wage , he said which make it `` less harsh cited . ''
 , . he said With only 16 - year - olds to 19 - year - olds eligible , wo 68 % of workers getting less than $ 4.25 an hour , who are adults , n't be subject to the training wage
 The , AFL-CIO which opposed previously the administration 's subminimum idea , said . the compromise so the youth are not exploited and older workers are displaced not `` has , adequate safeguards ''
 Gerald Seib F. contributed to this article .
 Moody 's Investors Service Inc. said it lowered the ratings on about billion $ 3.2 of Houston Lighting Co. Power & 's securities because of the company 's low levels of interest coverage and internal cash generation .
 Houston Lighting is a of Houston Industries , Inc. a utility in Houston holding company unit .
 Downgraded by Moody 's were . preferred stock Houston Lighting 's first - mortgage bonds and secured pollution - control bonds ; , to single - A - 3 from single - A - 2 from single - A - 3 to a preliminary rating of single A - - 3 to single - A - 3 from a preliminary rating of single - A - 2 to Baa - 1 ; unsecured pollution - control bonds a for preferred stock shelf registration to a preliminary rating of single - A - 3 ; two for collateralized securities debt shelf registrations from single - A - 2 ; and to Prime - 2 the 's unit rating for commercial paper from Prime - 1 from a preliminary rating of single - 2 A -
 Moody 's said Houston 's Lighting current situation has some positive aspects , including managing `` '' very well the construction and commercial operation risks of Units 1 and 2 of the South Texas Project nuclear power plant .
 , Moody 's . Capital requirements will be declining and no new facilities generating will be required for several years said
 Scott Smith C. , formerly , vice , president finance and chief financial officer of this media concern , was named senior vice president .
 Mr. Smith 39 , , retains the title of chief financial officer .
 Armstrong Industries World Inc. agreed in principle to sell its carpet operations to Shaw Industries Inc .
 The price was n't but disclosed one analyst that it was $ 150 million estimated .
 Armstrong , which has faced a takeover threat from the Belzberg family of Canada since July , said '' that disposing of the carpet business would improve `` total financial performance .
 The move also would allow the company to concentrate on core businesses which ceramic floor and furniture coverings tile , include , .
 Moreover , such a sale . could help Armstrong reassure its investors and deter the who own a 9.85 % stake in the Lancaster , , Pa. company Belzbergs ,
 Analysts Armstrong expect to use to reduce debt , buy or perhaps an acquisition finance back stock proceeds of the sale .
 The division carpet had 1988 of $ million 368.3 , or almost 14 % of Armstrong 's $ billion 2.68 total revenue sales .
 The company has been manufacturing since 1967 carpet .
 Recently upgraded it its plants so that it make stain - resistant products with higher quality dyes could .
 For the past year or two , the division carpet 's operating profit margins . have hovered around 5 high by industry standards , but disappointing compared with the 13 % to 19 % margins for two flooring and building products of Armstrong 's businesses chief , % ,
 Analysts hailed the planned transaction as being beneficial to Armstrong and Shaw , , with an estimated 17 % to 20 % share the in the industry U.S. carpet market leader .
 Shaw based in Dalton Ga. , , , , has annual sales of about $ 1.18 billion and has economies of scale and lower raw - material costs that are expected to boost the profitability of Armstrong 's sold under the Armstrong and Evans Black - names brands , .
 Yesterday in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange Shaw 's shares closed at $ 26.125 , , ex - dividend , up $ 2.25 .
 Armstrong 's shares , also on the Board Big listed , closed . at $ 39.125 up 12.5 cents ,
 Yesterday Armstrong , reported . flat for the quarter third and nine months earnings , worsened by the stock of an employee stock ownership plan adopted earlier this year dilution
 For the quarter , $ 47 , million or 92 a share cents including a one - time gain of $ 5.9 million , earnings were .
 In the year - ago quarter , earnings $ 42.9 million , or 93 cents a share were .
 Yesterday Armstrong , announced an to sell its small Applied Color Systems unit to a subsidiary of the company Swiss , Brauerei Eichof Ltd agreement .
 The price was n't . disclosed
 Armstrong to close with the gains to be applied to fourth quarter or first - quarter results in late November the of the unit color sale and the carpet sale in December , expects .
 The 's government primary economic - forecasting gauge but economists said the report offered little new information on the degree the U.S. economy is to which slowing a slight 0.2 % in September rose . ,
 The increase small in the , index of leading indicators which had but was in July unchanged climbed 0.5 % in August , does lend support to the view that the economy has slowed noticeably .
 However it , does . n't give much of a clue as to whether a recession is on the horizon
 `` I do n't think it much information new on the economy provides , Richard Rippe economist at Dean Witter Reynolds Inc , '' said .
 So far this year the index of leading indicators , has risen fallen in four months and remained unchanged in the other month in four months , .
 In another report yesterday . the Commerce Department , said sales of new single - family houses plunged in September 14 % to an annual rate of 618,000 from 719,000 in August
 The declines were particularly in the Northeast and in the South where a factor Hurricane Hugo was , pronounced .
 Although September 's weakness followed two strong months for home sales , other indications that the drop in mortgage rates earlier this year has had only a beneficial limited effect on the housing market the decline supports .
 The drop September , since a 19 % drop in January 1982 was the largest but monthly changes in this measure are even less reliable than those in other economic indicators .
 Because the figures are based on a small sample , the department . it 90 % confident only that new - home sales fell somewhere between 5 % and 23 % during the month is said
 The department also said it takes four months to establish a trend .
 So far this year have 534,000 newly built homes down from the of 1988 like months 4.5 % , been sold , .
 The of leading indicators index in September got a major boost from a surge in consumer expectations as measured by the University of Michigan .
 This measure had dropped in August sharply .
 The Department Commerce said . that as a result of a new adjustment to the formula used to calculate the index , the influence of this component has been reduced
 Of the 11 components to the index only three others the the length of the average work week and stock prices money supply , . rose : , in September
 Several components that track the of the sector manufacturing of the economy health turned . down in September
 These include new orders for manufactured consumer goods , lead times on vendor deliveries , orders , for new and equipment plant and backlogs of orders for durable goods .
 Meanwhile , the National Manufacturers Association of yesterday said a recent poll of 53 executives on its board that 61 % do n't expect a recession to occur until 1991 or later found .
 The remainder expect a downturn to begin sometime in
 Although manufacturers are often quick to call for lower interest rates , they prefer that the Fed keep inflation - fighting as its top priority even if that means higher rates would 60 % of the executives said .
 The 40 other % . the Fed ought to worry less about inflation and bring interest rates down said
 All figures the are adjusted to remove usual patterns seasonal .
 Here are the net of the components of the Commerce Department 's of leading indicators index contributions .
 After various adjustments , a 0.5 % rise in the index and a for September 0.2 % rise for August they produced .
 September and the from August change , , are : from 1.11 in the previous month .
 Boston Co. Edison said . it take a previously reported $ 60 million against earnings charge in the quarter fourth will
 The charge resulted from a approved yesterday by the Massachusetts Department Utilities of Public settlement .
 As expected , the settlement limits rate increases . and ties future for operation of the troubled Pilgrim Nuclear Power Station charges to customers to that plant 's performance for three years
 In its order , the regulatory state agency '' said the company `` must be held accountable for the made in the management of the plant 's operation mistakes .
 Pilgrim been closed for 32 months had .
 The interest average rate at Citicorp 's $ 50 million of 91 - day commercial paper , or corporate IOUs weekly auction to 8.3875 % rose , from 8.337 % at last week 's sale .
 Bids totaling $ 515 million were submitted .
 Accepted bids ranged from to 8.395 % 8.38 % .
 Citicorp said also that the rate average rose from 7.962 % at last week 's sale at its $ 50 million auction of 182 - day commercial paper to 8.0087 % .
 Bids totaling $ 475 million were submitted .
 Accepted bids ranged from to 8.019 % 8 % .
 The holding bank company auction another $ million 50 in each maturity next Tuesday will .
 An novelist imaginative writing a about amateur spy - chasing thriller , might . invent a Clifford Stoll but it unlikely 's
 It also 's unnecessary .
 Amateur spy - chaser Clifford Stoll a person real , or , a surreal person as he put it might waggishly is .
 He 37 , an , astronomer with impressive credentials and something of a genius at making computers do his bidding is .
 He described once himself , as a `` Berkeley Hippie '' and played ; the obligatory , ragged jeans a thicket of long hair and rejection of all things conventional , including formal marriage to his `` '' sweetheart , Martha Matthews for , a time , at least role well .
 He , is also an writer entertaining combining wisecracks and wordplay with programmatic detail and lucid explanations of how work computers .
 In `` The Cuckoo 's '' Egg ( , Doubleday 326 pages , $ 19.95 ) , he spins a remarkable tale of his efforts over 18 months to catch a computer spy .
 The result last spring the arrest by West German authorities of five young West Germans , accused of stealing information from computers in the U.S. and Europe and selling it to the Soviet KGB was .
 One of them , 25 - year - old Markus Hess of Hannover , allegedly used to break into more than 30 high - security computers in the U.S. , searching for secrets the international network telecommunications .
 He did , probably . n't but the KGB in East Berlin willing to pay two of his associates , Peter Carl and Dirk Brezinski , $ 15,000 for some of the Hess collected material was penetrate any top - secret files
 They yet more for really good stuff promised .
 Mr. Stoll draws his title from the cuckoo 's habit of laying making them surrogate parents eggs in the nests of other birds , .
 The spy computer had discovered that a popular editing / electronic mail program called Gnu - Emacs do with the widely used Unix operating system created by AT&T tricks could .
 Using Gnu - Emacs , the spy could substitute a bogus program `` atrun '' for the one that cleans routinely up the Unix system every five minutes .
 Once his cuckoo 's egg laid was , could he enter Unix and become a `` '' , super - user with access to everything .
 Mr. Stoll was scanning when ran his grant low and he was asked to switch to helping run the lab 's computers the heavens in 1986 at the observatory Keck of the Laboratory Lawrence Berkeley .
 He discovered a 75 - cent discrepancy in the charges made to various departments for computer time and traced to a user named `` Hunter , '' who had no valid billing address it .
 Mr. Stoll suspected the intruder one of those precocious students who has fun breaking into computers was .
 But after much tracking , . , it , became evident that the hacker not was on the Berkeley campus or even in California through various clues to Mr. Stoll
 Finding him became an obsession for Mr. Stoll .
 He made a midnight of all the printers he could lay hands on requisition so that he could monitor all the telephone lines coming into the lab 's computers .
 After discovering that the hacker taken over the dormant account of a legitimate user named Joe Sventek had , rigged he up an alarm system , including a portable beeper to alert him when Sventek came on the line , .
 Some nights he slept under his desk .
 His boss complained about neglect of other chores .
 The hacker was pawing also but using Berkeley and other computers easily accessible as stepping to the network of computers used by the military and national security agencies stones over the Berkeley files .
 The White Sands missile and CIA contractor Mitre Inc. range among the targets . were
 When the hacker moved , , Mr. Stoll moved too calling up but keeping his own system open to avoid arousing suspicion other systems managers to alert them .
 Sometimes if the hacker to be into a sensitive file seemed , , he would . drag across the terminal his keychain to create static or slow the system down to frustrate his quarry
 The FBI initially , showed little interest and he had the impression other federal security agencies were tangled in legal red tape up .
 One learns a lot about crippling federal bureaucracy from this book , . , or seems to
 `` Seems to '' it 's possible that the CIA and the National Security Agency more than they let on to Mr. Stoll interested were because .
 Finally he help got , .
 Tymnet is a major linking computers network .
 One of its international specialists , Steve White , took a quick interest in Mr. Stoll 's hunt ultimately tracing the hacker to West Germany , .
 The Germans West then and finally found Markus Hess took over .
 Eventually , Mr. Stoll invited to both CIA the and NSA to brief on computer theft high - ranking officers was .
 He savored the humor of his uncombed appearance among these buttoned - up chaps .
 Back in Berkeley , . he violently scolded by a left - wing lady friend for consorting with such people was
 He angry became in return .
 He developed a for the hacker hatred and a grudging appreciation of the who make national security their business federal `` spooks '' had .
 At several different levels , a tale fascinating it 's .
 Mr. Melloan is deputy of the Journal editor .
 Mips Systems Computer Inc. today unveil a that will compete with more expensive from companies such as Sun Microsystems Inc. and Digital Equipment Corp machines general - purpose new computer will .
 The closely held Sunnyvale , , Calif. company will also announce an agreement to supply computers to Control , Data Corp. which will sell Mips machines under its own label .
 The Mips new machine called the RC6280 , , will cost $ 150,000 for a basic system .
 The computer processes 55 million instructions per second and uses only one chip central processing , unlike many using several processors rival machines .
 The machine employs reduced instruction - set computing or RISC , , technology .
 , , an familiar with the machine analyst said At that price the computer up times to 10 performance the of similar machines offers .
 `` it In the price range 's a tremendously high - performing product , Sandy Gant an analyst at the market - research firm InfoCorp , '' said .
 The machine is part of an to establish itself as a supplier of of integrated - circuit technology computers , just not by Mips effort .
 Mips wants also to wedge into markets other than traditional RISC applications such as engineering ; . Mips said the machine new also will be used by businesses and for communications
 `` This clearly demonstrates that Mips a company systems rather than just a chip company is , '' said Mips Vice President John Hime .
 The Control Data deal because it gives the the company five - old year - one more ally as it battles for the emerging market for RISC machines more established electronic concerns such as Sun , Hewlett-Packard Co. , Motorola and Intel Corp. Inc. is a boon for Mips .
 RISC technology speeds up by simplifying the internal software a computer .
 big - name such Control Data as allies are For Mips , which revenue of $ million 100 expects this year , essential to attract software deve